
News
Bulbapedia
Forums
Discord
More
Editors
Account
Search Bulbapedia
Our friends at Johto Times are currently running a poll to determine the ultimate fan-favorite Pokémon!
Please remember to follow the unreleased materials policy, manual of style, and code of conduct at all times.
Check the Bulbagarden home page for up-to-date Pokémon news, and discuss it on the forums or in the Bulbagarden Discord server.
Bulbasaur (Pokémon)
For Pokémon GO information on this species, see the game's section.
Pokémon
#0002: Ivysaur		→
This article is about the species. For a specific instance of this species, see Bulbasaur (disambiguation).
Bulbasaur
Seed Pokémon	フシギダネ
Fushigidane
#0001
Bulbasaur
Images on the Bulbagarden Archives
Type
Grass	Poison
Abilities
Overgrow	Chlorophyll
Hidden Ability
Gender ratio
87.5% male, 12.5% female
Catch rate
45 (11.9%)
Breeding
Egg Groups
Monster and Grass
Hatch time
20 cycles
Height
2'04"	0.7 m
Weight
15.2 lbs.	6.9 kg
Base experience yield
64
Gen. I-IV	64
V+
Leveling rate
Medium Slow
EV yield
Total: 1
0
HP	0
Atk	0
Def	1
Sp.Atk	0
Sp.Def	0
Speed
Shape

Footprint

Pokédex color
  Green
Base friendship
70
External Links
On Smogon Pokédex:
Generation I
Generation II
Generation III
Generation IV
Generation V
Generation VI
Generation VII
Generation VIII
Generation IX
Artwork on Bulbagarden Archives
Bulbasaur (Japanese: フシギダネ Fushigidane) is a dual-type Grass/Poison Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves into Ivysaur starting at level 16, which evolves into Venusaur starting at level 32.

Along with Charmander and Squirtle, Bulbasaur is one of the three first partner Pokémon of Kanto available at the beginning of Pokémon Red, Green, Blue, FireRed, and LeafGreen.


Contents
1	Biology
1.1	Evolution
2	Game data
2.1	Pokédex entries
2.2	Game locations
2.2.1	In side games
2.2.2	In events
2.2.2.1	In-game events
2.2.2.2	Wild Area News
2.2.3	Pokémon Global Link promotions
2.3	Held items
2.4	Stats
2.4.1	Base stats
2.4.2	Pokéathlon stats
2.5	Type effectiveness
2.6	Learnset
2.6.1	By leveling up
2.6.2	By TM
2.6.3	By breeding
2.6.4	TCG-only moves
2.6.5	Animated series-only moves
2.7	Side game data
2.8	Evolution data
2.9	Sprites
3	In animation
3.1	Main series
3.1.1	Major appearances
3.1.1.1	Ash's Bulbasaur
3.1.1.2	May's Bulbasaur
3.1.1.3	Shauna's Bulbasaur
3.1.1.4	Other
3.1.2	Minor appearances
3.1.3	Pokédex entries
3.2	Pokémon Origins
3.3	Pokémon Generations
3.4	Pokémon: Twilight Wings
3.5	GOTCHA!
3.6	POKÉTOON
3.7	Pokémon Evolutions
4	In the manga
4.1	Pokémon Adventures
4.1.1	Major appearances
4.1.1.1	Saur
4.1.2	Minor appearances
4.2	Pokémon Pocket Monsters
4.3	The Electric Tale of Pikachu
4.4	Magical Pokémon Journey
4.5	Pokémon Zensho
4.6	Movie adaptations
4.7	Pokémon: Yeah! I Got Pokémon!
4.8	Pokémon Gold & Silver: The Golden Boys
4.9	Ash & Pikachu
5	In the TCG
6	In the TFG
7	Other appearances
7.1	Super Smash Bros. Melee and Brawl
7.1.1	Melee trophy information
7.1.2	Brawl trophy information
7.2	POKÉMON Detective Pikachu
7.3	Celestial
8	Trivia
8.1	Cultural impact
8.2	Origin
8.2.1	Name origin
9	In other languages
10	See also
11	References
12	External links



Biology

Bulbasaur using its vines to climb a tree
Bulbasaur is a small, quadrupedal amphibian Pokémon that has blue-green skin with darker patches. It has red eyes with white pupils, pointed, ear-like structures on top of its head, and a short, blunt snout with a wide mouth. Small, pointed teeth are visible in the upper jaw when its mouth is open. Each of its thick legs ends with three sharp claws. On Bulbasaur's back is a green plant bulb that conceals two slender, tentacle-like vines, which is grown from a seed planted there at birth. The bulb also provides it with energy through photosynthesis and from the nutrient-rich seeds contained within.

First partner Pokémon are raised by Breeders to be distributed to new Trainers.[1] Having been raised by humans from birth, Bulbasaur is regarded as both a rare and well-behaved Pokémon. It is known to be extremely loyal, even after long-term abandonment.[2] Bulbasaur have demonstrated a nurturing instinct towards younger, weaker Pokémon, one individual even using its vines to pick up a crying Pokémon, gently rocking it back and forth through the air while singing a "Bulba-by".[3] Its vines are long and strong enough to allow Bulbasaur to grab the branches of trees and pull itself up to reach berries.[4] Bulbasaur can survive for days without eating. As mentioned in Sleep Style Dex, Bulbasaur is known to sleep in sunny spots. Bulbasaur has four different sleep styles it sleeps in: Sunbathing Sleep, Sturdy Sleep, Vines-Out Sleep, and Atop-Belly Sleep.

It is found in grasslands and forests throughout the Kanto region. However, due to Bulbasaur's status as first partner Pokémon, it is hard to come by in the wild and generally found under the ownership of a Trainer. It has been recently seen living in the Terarium of Blueberry Academy. A Bulbasaur's bulb will flash blue when it is ready to evolve. If it does not want to evolve, it struggles to resist the transformation.[5] Many Bulbasaur gather every year in a hidden garden in Kanto to evolve into Ivysaur in a ceremony led by a Venusaur.

Evolution
Bulbasaur evolves into Ivysaur, which evolves into Venusaur.

(For specifics on this Pokémon's Evolution in the games, refer to Game data→Evolution data.)


Unevolved
Bulbasaur
 Grass  Poison 

→	

First Evolution
Ivysaur
 Grass  Poison 

→	

Second Evolution
Venusaur
 Grass  Poison 

Game data

Pokédex entries
Generation I			Kanto
#001
Red(JPN)	(This entry was originally untranslated in English until it was reused in Pokémon FireRed.)
Green
Red(ENG)	A strange seed was planted on its back at birth. The plant sprouts and grows with this Pokémon.
Blue
Yellow	It can go for days without eating a single morsel. In the bulb on its back, it stores energy.
Stadium	The bulb-like pouch on its back grows larger as it ages. The pouch is filled with numerous seeds.
Generation II			Johto
#226
Gold	The seed on its back is filled with nutrients. The seed grows steadily larger as its body grows.
Silver	It carries a seed on its back right from birth. As it grows older, the seed also grows larger.
Crystal	While it is young, it uses the nutrients that are stored in the seeds on its back in order to grow.
Stadium 2	The seed on its back is filled with nutrients. The seed grows steadily larger as its body grows. (Pokémon Red, Silver, or Crystal inserted)
It carries a seed on its back right from birth. As it grows older, the seed also grows larger. (Pokémon Blue, Gold, or Yellow inserted)
Generation III		Hoenn
#—		Kanto
#001
Ruby	Bulbasaur can be seen napping in bright sunlight. There is a seed on its back. By soaking up the sun's rays, the seed grows progressively larger.
Sapphire
Emerald
FireRed	There is a plant seed on its back right from the day this Pokémon is born. The seed slowly grows larger.
LeafGreen	A strange seed was planted on its back at birth. The plant sprouts and grows with this Pokémon.
Generation IV		Sinnoh
#—		Johto
#231
Diamond	For some time after its birth, it grows by gaining nourishment from the seed on its back.
Pearl
Platinum
HeartGold	The seed on its back is filled with nutrients. The seed grows steadily larger as its body grows.
SoulSilver	It carries a seed on its back right from birth. As it grows older, the seed also grows larger.
Generation V			Unova
#—
Black	For some time after its birth, it grows by gaining nourishment from the seed on its back.
White
Black 2	For some time after its birth, it grows by gaining nourishment from the seed on its back.
White 2
Generation VI		Kalos
Central #080		Hoenn
#—
X	A strange seed was planted on its back at birth. The plant sprouts and grows with this Pokémon.
Y	For some time after its birth, it grows by gaining nourishment from the seed on its back.
Omega Ruby	Bulbasaur can be seen napping in bright sunlight. There is a seed on its back. By soaking up the sun's rays, the seed grows progressively larger.
Alpha Sapphire
Generation VII		Alola
#—		Kanto
#001
This Pokémon has no Pokédex entries in Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon.
Let's Go Pikachu	It can go for days without eating a single morsel. In the bulb on its back, it stores energy.
Let's Go Eevee
Generation VIII		Galar
Isle of Armor #068		Sinnoh
#—		Hisui
#—
This Pokémon has no Pokédex entries in Legends: Arceus.
Sword	There is a plant seed on its back right from the day this Pokémon is born. The seed slowly grows larger.
Shield	While it is young, it uses the nutrients that are stored in the seed on its back in order to grow.
Brilliant Diamond	For some time after its birth, it grows by taking nourishment from the seed on its back.
Shining Pearl
Generation IX		Paldea
#—		Kitakami
#—		Blueberry
#164
Scarlet	For some time after its birth, it uses the nutrients that are packed into the seed on its back in order to grow.
Violet	It carries a seed on its back right from birth. As its body grows larger, the seed does too.



Bulbasaur in the Blueberry Pokédex

Game locations
Generation I	
Red	Blue	
First partner Pokémon from Professor Oak in Pallet Town
Blue (Japan)	
First partner Pokémon from Professor Oak in Pallet Town
Yellow	
Received from a girl in Cerulean City if the partner Pikachu's friendship is 147 or higher
Generation II	
Gold	Silver	
Time Capsule, Event
Crystal	
Time Capsule, Event
Generation III	
Ruby	Sapphire	
Trade, Event
Emerald	
Trade, Event
FireRed	LeafGreen	
First partner Pokémon from Professor Oak in Pallet Town
Colosseum	
Trade
XD	
Trade
Generation IV	
Diamond	Pearl	
Trade
Platinum	
Trade
HeartGold	SoulSilver	
Received from Professor Oak in Pallet Town after defeating Red
Pal Park	
Field
Generation V	
Black	White	
Global Link Event
Black 2	White 2	
Poké Transfer, Event
Generation VI	
X	Y	
Received from Professor Sycamore in Lumiose City after defeating him
Omega Ruby	Alpha Sapphire	
Trade, Event
Generation VII	
Sun	Moon	
Trade
Ultra Sun	Ultra Moon	
Route 2 (Island Scan)Fr
Let's Go Pikachu	Let's Go Eevee	
Viridian Forest
Cerulean City (Only one)
Generation VIII	
Sword	Shield	
Wild Area News, Pokémon HOME Event
TradeVersion 1.2.0+
Expansion Pass	
Master Dojo (Only one; Gigantamax Factor)
Brilliant Diamond	Shining Pearl	
Grand Underground - Grassland Cave, Sunlit Cavern, Swampy Cave, Riverbank Cave, Still-Water Cavern, Bogsunk Cavern (after obtaining the National Pokédex)
Legends: Arceus	
Unobtainable
Generation IX	
Scarlet	Violet	
TradeVersion 3.0.0+
The Hidden Treasure of Area Zero	
Coastal Biome, Torchlit Labyrinth (after boosting biodiversity in the Coastal Biome)



In side games
Generation I	
Snap	
River, Cave (Ditto in disguise)
Pinball	
Red Field: Pallet Town
Blue Field: Viridian City
Stadium	
Gym Leader Castle
Generation II	
This Pokémon is unavailable in Generation II side games.
Generation III	
Channel	
Bus Stop
Trozei!	
Phobos Train, Endless level 16, Trozei Battle, Mr. Who's Den
MD Red	MD Blue	
Hero Pokémon, Partner Pokémon, Joyous Tower (1F-5F)
Ranger	
Lyra Forest, Kisara Plain
Generation IV	
MD Time	MD Darkness	
Hero Pokémon, Partner Pokémon, Mystifying Forest (B1-B13), Mystery Jungle (B1-B29)
MD Sky	
Hero Pokémon, Partner Pokémon, Mystifying Forest (B1-B13), Mystery Jungle (B1-B29)
Rumble	
Silent Forest (Normal Mode C & A)
PokéPark Wii	
Meadow Zone
Ranger: GS	
Dolce Island, Hinder Cape, Forest Temple
Generation V	
Rumble Blast	
Forest: Everspring Valley
Rumble U	
Model Train Room: All Aboard!, Locomotive Café: Dash Race!,
Variety Battle: Get 1,000 Combos!, NFC Figurine
Generation VI	
Battle Trozei	
Blade-and-Shield Path: Stage 1
Rumble World	
Origin Hideaway: Old-Growth Woods (All Areas)
Super MD	
Hero Pokémon, Partner Pokémon, Baram Town
Picross	
Area 14: Stage 8
Generation VII	
Quest	
First partner Pokémon
Rumble Rush	
Tutorial, Charizard Sea2019, Gengar Sea, Castform Sea, Mimikyu Sea, Mewtwo Sea, Charizard Sea2020, Bulbasaur Sea, Charizard SeaFinal, Mimikyu SeaFinal, Mewtwo SeaFinal
Generation VIII	
MD DX	
Hero Pokémon, Partner Pokémon, Joyous Tower (1F-5F)
Fainted Pokémon: Sky Tower, Silver Trench, Buried Relic
New Snap	
Elsewhere Forest
Generation IX	
Sleep	
Greengrass Isle (from Basic 2)
Lapis Lakeside (from Basic 1)
Cross-Generation	
Shuffle	
Puerto Blanco: Stage 2
Blau Salon: Stage 424
Event: Special Daily Pokémon (First release; Winking)
Masters EX	
Scottie/Bettie & BulbasaurEgg
Trainer Lodge Friendship Level 100: Professor Sycamore & Bulbasaur


In events
Games	Event	Language/Region	Location	Level	Distribution period
GSC	Gotta Catch 'Em All Station! AncientPower Bulbasaur	English	United States	5	December 28, 2001 to January 31, 2002;
January 17 to 23, 2003
GSC	Pokémon Center Mystery Egg #3 AncientPower Bulbasaur	Japanese	Japan	5	April 27 to May 12, 2002
RSEFRLG	Gather More Pokémon! Fourth Campaign Bulbasaur	Japanese	Japan	10	February 11 to 28, 2006
RSEFRLG	Journey Across America Bulbasaur	English	United States	70	February 25 to July 23, 2006
RSEFRLG	Party of the Decade Bulbasaur	English	United States	70	August 8, 2006
B2W2	Sticker Promotional Kanto First Partner Egg Bulbasaur	Japanese	Japan	1	September 1 to 30, 2012
BWB2W2	Kanto First Partner Egg Bulbasaur	Korean	South Korea	1	November 8 to 11, 2012
B2W2	Kanto First Partner Egg Bulbasaur	Korean	Wi-Fi	1	February 14 to March 31, 2013
XYORAS	Pokémon Lab Bulbasaur	Japanese region	Online	5	July 8 to November 30, 2015
ORAS	2016 World Championships Bulbasaur	All	United States	5	August 19 to 21, 2016
SwSh	Pokémon HOME Gigantamax Factor Bulbasaur	All	Online	14	June 17 to 30, 2021
In-game events
Games	Event	Language	Level	Distribution period
RGBY	Gym Leader Castle Bulbasaur	Japanese	5	April 30, 1999 onwards
RBY	Gym Leader Castle Bulbasaur	English	5	February 29, 2000 onwards
RBY	Gym Leader Castle Bulbasaur	French	5	April 7, 2000 onwards
RBY	Gym Leader Castle Bulbasaur	German	5	April 7, 2000 onwards
RBY	Gym Leader Castle Bulbasaur	Italian	5	April 7, 2000 onwards
RBY	Gym Leader Castle Bulbasaur	Spanish	5	April 7, 2000 onwards
HOME	HOME Mobile Hidden Ability Bulbasaur	Worldwide	5	February 12, 2020 onwards
HOME	HOME Mobile Gigantamax Factor Bulbasaur	Worldwide	14	June 17 to 30, 2021
Wild Area News
Games	Event	Gigantamax	Level	Distribution period
SwSh	Wild Area News	No	17, 30, 40	February 27 to March 1, 2020
Pokémon Global Link promotions
Games	Event	Language	Location	Level	Distribution period
BW	Global Link Bulbasaur	Japanese	PGL	10	October 14, 2010 to May 31, 2011
BW	Global Link Bulbasaur	Korean	PGL	10	May 11, 2011 to May 11, 2013
Held items
Pokémon caught in Generation I must be traded to a Generation II game in order for a held item to appear.

Games	Held items
Red	Blue	
Bitter Berry Bitter Berry (100%)
Yellow
Stadium	
Normal Box Normal Box (From Round 1: 100%)
Gorgeous Box Gorgeous Box (From Round 2: 100%)
Stats
Base stats
Stat	Range
At Lv. 50	At Lv. 100
HP:
45
105 - 152	200 - 294
Attack:
49
48 - 111	92 - 216
Defense:
49
48 - 111	92 - 216
Sp. Atk:
65
63 - 128	121 - 251
Sp. Def:
65
63 - 128	121 - 251
Speed:
45
45 - 106	85 - 207
Total:
318
Other Pokémon with this total
Minimum stats are calculated with 0 EVs, IVs of 0, and (if applicable) a hindering nature.
Maximum stats are calculated with 252 EVs, IVs of 31, and (if applicable) a helpful nature.
This Pokémon's Special base stat in Generation I was 65.
Pokéathlon stats
Speed
2/3	★★☆
Power
2/3	★★☆
Skill
3/4	★★★☆
Stamina
3/4	★★★☆
Jump
3/3	★★★
Total
13/17	★★☆


Type effectiveness
Under normal battle conditions in Generation IX, this Pokémon is:	
Damaged
normally by:	
Normal	1×
Poison	1×
Ground	1×
Rock	1×
Bug	1×
Ghost	1×
Steel	1×
Dragon	1×
Dark	1×
Weak to:	
Flying	2×
Fire	2×
Psychic	2×
Ice	2×
Immune to:	
None
Resistant to:	
Fighting	½×
Water	½×
Grass	¼×
Electric	½×
Fairy	½×
Notes:
In Generation I, the effectiveness of  Bug-type  moves is 4×.
Learnset
Bulbasaur is available in Scarlet and Violet Version 3.0.0+.

By leveling up
Generation IX	
Other generations:
I - II - III - IV - V - VI - VII - VIII
 Level 	 Move 	 Type 	 Cat. 	 Pwr. 	 Acc. 	 PP
1	Tackle	Normal	Physical	40	100%	35
1	Growl	Normal	Status	—	100%	40
3	Vine Whip	Grass	Physical	45	100%	25
6	Growth	Normal	Status	—	—%	20
9	Leech Seed	Grass	Status	—	90%	10
12	Razor Leaf	Grass	Physical	55	95%	25
15	Poison Powder	Poison	Status	—	75%	35
15	Sleep Powder	Grass	Status	—	75%	15
18	Seed Bomb	Grass	Physical	80	100%	15
21	Take Down	Normal	Physical	90	85%	20
24	Sweet Scent	Normal	Status	—	100%	20
27	Synthesis	Grass	Status	—	—%	5
30	Worry Seed	Grass	Status	—	100%	10
33	Power Whip	Grass	Physical	120	85%	10
36	Solar Beam	Grass	Special	120	100%	10
Bold indicates a move that gets STAB when used by Bulbasaur
Italic indicates a move that gets STAB only when used by an Evolution of Bulbasaur
Click on the generation numbers at the top to see level-up moves from other generations
By TM
Generation IX	
Other generations:
I - II - III - IV - V - VI - VII - VIII
 	 TM 	 Move 	 Type 	 Cat. 	 Pwr. 	 Acc. 	 PP 
	TM001	Take Down	Normal	Physical	90	85%	20
	TM002	Charm	Fairy	Status	—	100%	20
	TM007	Protect	Normal	Status	—	—%	10
	TM013	Acid Spray	Poison	Special	40	100%	20
	TM020	Trailblaze	Grass	Physical	50	100%	20
	TM025	Facade	Normal	Physical	70	100%	20
	TM033	Magical Leaf	Grass	Special	60	—%	20
	TM045	Venoshock	Poison	Special	65	100%	10
	TM047	Endure	Normal	Status	—	—%	10
	TM049	Sunny Day	Fire	Status	—	—%	5
	TM056	Bullet Seed	Grass	Physical	25	100%	30
	TM057	False Swipe	Normal	Physical	40	100%	40
	TM066	Body Slam	Normal	Physical	85	100%	15
	TM070	Sleep Talk	Normal	Status	—	—%	10
	TM071	Seed Bomb	Grass	Physical	80	100%	15
	TM081	Grass Knot	Grass	Special	—	100%	20
	TM085	Rest	Psychic	Status	—	—%	5
	TM088	Swords Dance	Normal	Status	—	—%	20
	TM103	Substitute	Normal	Status	—	—%	10
	TM111	Giga Drain	Grass	Special	75	100%	10
	TM119	Energy Ball	Grass	Special	90	100%	10
	TM130	Helping Hand	Normal	Status	—	—%	20
	TM137	Grassy Terrain	Grass	Status	—	—%	10
	TM146	Grass Pledge	Grass	Special	80	100%	10
	TM148	Sludge Bomb	Poison	Special	90	100%	10
	TM159	Leaf Storm	Grass	Special	130	90%	5
	TM168	Solar Beam	Grass	Special	120	100%	10
	TM171	Tera Blast	Normal	Special	80	100%	10
	TM175	Toxic	Poison	Status	—	90%	10
	TM181	Knock Off	Dark	Physical	65	100%	20
	TM193	Weather Ball	Normal	Special	50	100%	10
	TM194	Grassy Glide	Grass	Physical	55	100%	20
	TM204	Double-Edge	Normal	Physical	120	100%	15
	TM224	Curse	Ghost	Status	—	—%	10
Bold indicates a move that gets STAB when used by Bulbasaur
Italic indicates a move that gets STAB only when used by an Evolution or an alternate form of Bulbasaur
Click on the generation numbers at the top to see TM moves from other generations
By breeding
Generation IX	
Other generations:
II - III - IV - V - VI - VII - VIII
 Parent 	 Move 	 Type 	 Cat. 	 Pwr. 	 Acc. 	 PP 
Slowpoke
Slowpoke
Slowbro
Slowbro
Slowking
Slowking
Turtwig
Grotle
Torterra
Phantump
Trevenant
Bergmite
Avalugg
Avalugg
Appletun
Bramblin
Brambleghast
Curse	Ghost	Status	—	—%	10
Sunflora
Cacnea
Cacturne
Snover
Abomasnow
Foongus
Amoonguss
Phantump
Trevenant
Fomantis
Lurantis
Ingrain	Grass	Status	—	—%	20
Venusaur
Oddish
Gloom
Vileplume
Bellossom
Meganium
Sunflora
Comfey
Arboliva
Petal Dance	Grass	Special	120	100%	10
Oddish
Gloom
Vileplume
Bellossom
Slowking
Shroomish
Breloom
Foongus
Amoonguss
Salandit
Toxic	Poison	Status	—	90%	10
Moves marked with an asterisk (*) must be chain bred onto Bulbasaur
Bold indicates a move that gets STAB when used by Bulbasaur
Italic indicates a move that gets STAB only when used by an Evolution of Bulbasaur
Click on the generation numbers at the top to see Egg moves from other generations
TCG-only moves
Move	Card
Scratch	Bulbasaur (McDonald Pack 1)
Bite	Bulbasaur (POP Series 2 12)
Lunge	Bulbasaur (McDonald Pack 1)
Present	Bulbasaur (DPt-P Promo 30)
Animated series-only moves
Move	Type	Episode
Dig	 Ground 	Bulbasaur... the Ambassador!
Whirlwind	 Normal 	The Ninja Poké-Showdown (Dub-only)
Side game data
Pokémon Pinball
 
Acquisition: Catch
Pokémon Trozei!

Rarity: Common
Pokémon Mystery Dungeon
Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team
Body size: 1
Recruit rate: 12.5%
Friend Area: Beau Plains
Phrases
51%-100% HP	I'm going to make a big flower bloom!
26%-50% HP	I'm down to about half my HP now.
1%-25% HP	I'm about to keel over...
Level up	I did it! My level went up!
Partner phrases
51%-100% HP	Let's try to do our best, <name>!
26%-50% HP	This is getting a bit hard...
1%-25% HP	Urgh... Can't keep this up... <name>, help...
Level up	Yes! I leveled up!
Pokémon Mystery Dungeon
Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness, and Explorers of Sky
	Body size: 1
Recruit rate: 8.2%
IQ group: F
Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon
	
Body size: Standard (1 tile)
How to Recruit: Talk to in Baram Town
Connected to: Charmander, Squirtle, Mew
Connection Orb Set: 1

Phrases
Normal	Seeds are full of nutrition!
Low HP (< 50%)	Oh, this is so hard…
Phrases if the hero
Normal	(All right! I'll give it my all!)
Low HP (< 50%)	(This is hard…but I need to hang in there!)
Phrases if the partner
Normal	Let's give it our all!
Low HP (< 50%)	I'm OK… I can take it a little more…
Pokémon Ranger
Group:	
Grass
Poké Assist:	
Grass
Field move:	
(Cross ×1)
Loops: 3	Min. exp.: 12	Max. exp.: 22
Browser entry R-001
Bulbasaur extends its vines to attack and prevent capture.
Pokémon Ranger: Guardian Signs
Group:	
Grass
Poké Assist:
(present)	
Grass
Field move:
(present)	
(Cut ×1)
Poké Assist:
(past)	
Grass
Field move:
(past)	
(Cut ×1)
Browser entry R-014/N-004
It attacks by shooting seeds.
Pokémon Rumble
Attack	●●
Defense	●●
Speed	●●●
Pokémon Rumble Blast
Attack	●●
Defense	●●
Speed	●●●
Pokémon Rumble Rush
	Walking Speed: 1.55 seconds	Base HP: 46	
Base Attack: 69	Base Defense: 50	Base Speed: 60
PokéPark Wii: Pikachu's Adventure
	PokéPark Pad entry:
Bulbasaur is the Attraction Chief of Bulbasaur's Daring Dash in the Meadow Zone. So, even though it is forbidden, he may allow you to play on it.
Pokémon Battle Trozei
Grass
Attack Power:	★★★★★


Pokémon Shuffle
	
Grass
	Attack Power: 40 - 125	 20
#001


Power of 4
Increases damage when you make a match of four.
 Swappable Skill(s): Mega Boost+


Pokémon Shuffle
	
Grass
	Attack Power: 40 - 90	 5
#001


Block Smash+
Sometimes clears three unbreakable-block disruptions.


Pokémon GO
	Base HP: 128	Base Attack: 118	Base Defense: 111
Egg Distance: N/A	Buddy Distance: 3 km	Evolution Requirement: Bulbasaur Candy 25
Fast Attacks: Vine Whip, Tackle
Charged Attacks: Sludge Bomb, Seed Bomb, Power Whip, FrustrationAs Shadow Pokémon, ReturnAs Purified Pokémon
Pokémon: Magikarp Jump
	Friendship Item: Miracle Seed (Beat the Luxury League)	★: Recovers a League Play
Skill: Recovers a League Play
Recovery time: 4 hours
New Pokémon Snap

Photodex entry #070
When Bulbasaur is born, it lives for a while via photosynthesis and the nutrients in the seed on its back. Until it grows bigger, it depends on other Pokémon to survive.
Pokémon Sleep
	Sleep type: Dozing	Pokémon type: Grass	Points to befriend: 5
Specialty: Ingredients	Berry:
Durin Berry ×1	Primary ingredient:
Honey ×2
Possible ingredients:
Honey	Snoozy Tomato	Soft Potato
Main skill: Ingredient Magnet S	Base carry limit: 11
Gets you 6 ingredients chosen at random.
Evolution requirements:
Bulbasaur Candy ×40, Lv. 12
It sits still and basks in sunny spots, possibly taking a nap. Perhaps it's trying to absorb nutrients from the seed on its back in order to grow up big, even while sleeping.
			
Sunbathing Sleep	Sturdy Sleep	Vines-Out Sleep	Atop-Belly Sleep
★★★★★	★★★★★	★★★★★	★★★★★


Costumes in Pokémon GO
		
Shedinja costume	Party hat	Pikachu visor
Evolution data

Unevolved
Bulbasaur
 Grass  Poison 
Rare Candy
Level 16
→	

First Evolution
Ivysaur
 Grass  Poison 
Rare Candy
Level 32
→	

Second Evolution
Venusaur
 Grass  Poison 


Sprites
Generation I	
Red	Green		Red	Blue		Yellow
							
Front	Back		Front	Back		Front	Back
Generation II	
Gold		Silver		Crystal
							
							
Front	Back		Front	Back		Front	Back
Generation III	
Ruby	Sapphire		Emerald		FireRed	LeafGreen
							
							
Front	Back		Front	Back		Front	Back
Generation IV	
Diamond	Pearl		Platinum		HeartGold	SoulSilver
							
							
Front	Back		Front	Back		Front	Back
Generation V	
Black	White		Black 2	White 2
				
				
Front	Back		Front	Back
Generation VI	
X	Y		Omega Ruby	Alpha Sapphire








Front	Back		Front	Back
Generation VII	
Sun	Moon		Ultra Sun	Ultra Moon








Front	Back		Front	Back
Let's Go, Pikachu!		Let's Go, Eevee!


Generation VIII	
Sword	Shield


Cross-Generation	
HOME
	
 For other sprites and images, please see Bulbasaur images on the Bulbagarden Archives.


In animation
Main series

Bulbasaur in Pokémon Journeys: The Series
Major appearances
Ash's Bulbasaur
Ash's Bulbasaur debuted in Bulbasaur and the Hidden Village as one of the Pokémon in the Hidden Village, thus also marking the species' physical debut. Though initially wary of Ash, the two eventually warmed up to one another, and Bulbasaur challenged him to a battle. Using Pikachu, Ash won the battle, and Bulbasaur was caught. Unlike Charmander and Squirtle, which were caught in the two episodes following that of Bulbasaur, Bulbasaur remained in Ash's party for most of his journey through Johto until Bulbasaur... the Ambassador!, when Ash sent him to Professor Oak's lab to work as an ambassador between otherwise argumentative groups of Pokémon.

May's Bulbasaur
Much later on, while Ash was traveling in the Hoenn region, May caught her own Bulbasaur after being separated from the group in Grass Hysteria!. She remained with her throughout the rest of her journey in Hoenn, helping her to win the Purika Contest and place Top 8 in the regional Grand Festival. When she traveled to Kanto to continue her journey with Ash in The Right Place and the Right Mime, May, too, left her Bulbasaur at Professor Oak's Laboratory to learn from Ash's while she, Ash, Max, and Brock traveled throughout the Kanto region. May retrieved her during her travels in Johto, where she evolved all the way into a Venusaur.

Shauna's Bulbasaur
Shauna's first partner Pokémon is a Bulbasaur she received from Professor Sycamore. It first appeared in Summer of Discovery!, and it was revealed to have evolved into Ivysaur by Tag Team Battle Inspiration!

Other
In Mewtwo Strikes Back, a Bulbasaur was cloned from Ash's own Bulbasaur. The cloned Bulbasaur participated in the battle between the original Pokémon and the cloned Pokémon. Bulbasaur reappeared in Mewtwo Returns.

In The Mystery Menace, a Bulbasaur was abandoned by the Mayor of Trovitopolis during his childhood when it wouldn't evolve into Ivysaur. Since then, it grew to a very large size in the sewers. Aided by Misty and Tracey, Ash found the abandoned Bulbasaur while searching for his own, which had been taken by the giant Bulbasaur. After defeating the arrogant mayor and his personal SWAT team, Ash and his friends left the Bulbasaur with Nurse Joy.

In Journey to the Starting Line!, Gilbert was supposed to start his journey as a Pokémon Trainer with one of the three Kanto first partner Pokémon, but they were scared off by Ash's Tauros, forcing Gilbert to set out to find them with Professor Oak, Tracey, and Delia. Bulbasaur was the last one to be found, having been stuck in a tree that was surrounded by a group of Primeape. In the end, Bulbasaur was chosen by Gilbert as his first partner Pokémon.

In A Six Pack Attack!, a Bulbasaur went with Professor Oak on his trip to Hoenn along with a Charmander and Squirtle.

A Bulbasaur appeared in The Right Place and the Right Mime, where it was one of the first partner Pokémon seen at Professor Oak's Laboratory.

In Ivysaur's Mysterious Tower!, multiple Bulbasaur and Ivysaur traveled to a Gym that was under construction in Vermilion City. Ash and Goh, who were investigating the outbreak, followed them to the Gym and realized the horde had gone there so the Bulbasaur could absorb the sunlight necessary to evolve into new Ivysaur. They reappeared in a flashback in Getting More Than You Battled For!.

Minor appearances
Bulbasaur debuted in Pokémon - I Choose You!, where Ash dreamed about one as his prospective first partner Pokémon.

In a flashback in Challenge of the Samurai, a Trainer's Bulbasaur was shown battling and defeating Samurai's Pinsir.

In Battle Aboard the St. Anne, multiple Bulbasaur were aboard the St. Anne.

In Pokémon Fashion Flash, a Bulbasaur was on Scissor Street.

A Bulbasaur appeared in The Breeding Center Secret.

In Friends to the End, a Trainer's Bulbasaur appeared during the closing ceremonies of the Indigo Plateau Conference.

A first partner Bulbasaur appeared in a flashback in Don't Touch That 'dile.

In Gonna Rule The School!, the Pokémon Trainers' School lent a Bulbasaur to the school's underage students for use in lessons.

A Bulbasaur appeared in the opening sequence of Jirachi: Wish Maker.

A Coordinator's Bulbasaur appeared in What I Did for Love!.

In An Old Family Blend!, a Trainer's Bulbasaur competed in the Lily of the Valley Conference.

In Meloetta's Moonlight Serenade, a Bulbasaur watched Meloetta's concert.

In The Fires of a Red-Hot Reunion!, a Bulbasaur was part of Professor Oak's demonstration of the Kanto first partner Pokémon at the Kanto Fair.

A Trainer's Bulbasaur appeared in Crystal-Clear Sleuthing!.

A Trainer's Bulbasaur appeared in I Choose You!. Another was revealed to have been chosen by Marina as her first partner Pokémon in a flashback.

A Trainer's Bulbasaur appeared in Balloons, Brionne, and Belligerence!.

Two Trainers' Bulbasaur appeared in The Power of Us.

In Securing the Future!, a Trainer's Bulbasaur joined the rest of Alola in showering Necrozma with light so it could return to its normal form.

A Trainer's Bulbasaur appeared in The Road to The Semifinals!.

Multiple Bulbasaur appeared in Enter Pikachu!, with one under the ownership of a Trainer and the rest being wild.

In Legend? Go! Friends? Go!, Professor Cerise offered a Bulbasaur to Goh to be his first partner Pokémon, but it was rejected.

A Trainer's Bulbasaur appeared in A Chilling Curse!.

A Bulbasaur appeared in a fantasy alongside the other first partner Pokémon in Getting More Than You Battled For!.

A Trainer's Bulbasaur appeared in To Train, or Not to Train!. It reappeared in Breaking the Ice!.

A Bulbasaur appeared in This Could be the Start of Something Big!.

A Trainer's Bulbasaur appeared in The Pendant That Starts It All (Part One). Another two appeared under the ownership of students of Indigo Academy.

A Bulbasaur appeared in The Terapagos I Don't Know, under the ownership of a student.

A Student's Bulbasaur appeared in Infiltrating the System! Naranja Academy in Danger!.

Pokédex entries
Episode	Subject	Source	Entry
EP010	Bulbasaur	Ash's Pokédex	Bulbasaur. It bears the seed of a plant on its back from birth. The seed slowly develops. Researchers are unsure whether to classify Bulbasaur as a plant or animal. Bulbasaur are extremely tough and very difficult to capture in the wild.
EP051	Solar Beam	Ash's Pokédex	Solar Beam, Bulbasaur's strongest attack. Light is collected and formed into a powerful beam with intensive force.
Episode	Pokémon	Source	Entry
XY039	Bulbasaur	Serena's Pokédex	Bulbasaur, the Seed Pokémon. A young Bulbasaur uses the nutrients from its seed for the energy it needs to grow.
Pokémon Origins

Bulbasaur in Pokémon Origins
In File 1: Red, a Bulbasaur was seen in Professor Oak's introduction, while another was one of the Pokémon that Oak was giving away.

Pokémon Generations

Bulbasaur in Pokémon Generations
In The Adventure, Red's Bulbasaur was sent out to battle a wild Pikachu, which Red successfully caught.

Pokémon: Twilight Wings
A Bulbasaur appeared in The Gathering of Stars, under the ownership of Honey.

GOTCHA!
A Bulbasaur briefly appeared in GOTCHA!.

POKÉTOON
Two Bulbasaur appeared in Blossom's Dream.

A Bulbasaur appeared in Wait for Me, Magikarp!.

Pokémon Evolutions
A Bulbasaur briefly appeared in The Discovery, inside Professor Oak's Laboratory. It was seen playing with its fellow first partner Pokémon.

In the manga

Bulbasaur in Pokémon Adventures
Pokémon Adventures
Major appearances
Saur
In Bulbasaur, Come Home!, Red received a Bulbasaur from Professor Oak after helping capture all of the Pokémon he accidentally set free. Bulbasaur, now nicknamed Saur, has since evolved into Ivysaur, and then into Venusaur. It has the ability to suck in large amounts of air through his bulb, as seen in That Awful Arbok!, where he sucked up the mist in Pokémon Tower, as well as the Gastly that made it.

Minor appearances
A Bulbasaur appeared as a silhouette when Green talks about Mew in The Jynx Jinx.

Professor Sycamore owns a Bulbasaur, as seen in They Have a Flare for a Li'l Kanga-Napping.

Pokémon Pocket Monsters
A Bulbasaur appeared in Introducing the Pokémon Clefairy!! as one of the first partner Pokémon Red and Green had to choose from.


Bulbasaur in The Electric Tale of Pikachu
The Electric Tale of Pikachu
Main article: Ash's Bulbasaur
Ash's Bulbasaur debuts in You Gotta Have Friends. Bulbasaur's capture is not shown; it is simply stated when it first appears from its Poké Ball that "Ash has been busy since the last comic".

In I'm Your Venusaur, Ash and Misty travel to a town inhabited by many Bulbasaur, Ivysaur and Venusaur. There is a local legend that a giant Venusaur saved the townsfolk in battle.

Magical Pokémon Journey
Main article: Pistachio's Bulbasaur
In Magical Pokémon Journey, Pistachio's Bulbasaur has a crush on him and is extremely jealous whenever she sees him talking to other females.

Pokémon Zensho
Bulbasaur appeared as one of the first partner Pokémon Professor Oak was giving away in PZ01.

Movie adaptations
Main article: Ash's Bulbasaur
Ash's Bulbasaur appeared in Mewtwo Strikes Back!, Mirage Pokémon Lugia's Explosive Birth, and Emperor of the Crystal Tower: Entei.

A Bulbasaur appeared in a flashback in ICYR1, under the ownership of Professor Oak.

Pokémon: Yeah! I Got Pokémon!
A Bulbasaur appeared in GDZ34.

Pokémon Gold & Silver: The Golden Boys
A Trainer's Bulbasaur appeared in Let's Fight For The Future!!.

Ash & Pikachu
Main article: Ash's Bulbasaur
Ash's Bulbasaur appeared in Do Your Best Bulbasaur!!.

In the TCG
Main article: Bulbasaur (TCG)
In the TFG
One Bulbasaur figure has been released.

Groundbreakers: Bulbasaur
Other appearances

Bulbasaur in POKÉMON Detective Pikachu

Bulbasaur in the music video for Celestial
Super Smash Bros. Melee and Brawl
Bulbasaur appears as a random trophy.

Melee trophy information
"Bulbasaur is a cute Pokémon born with a large seed firmly affixed to its back; the seed grows in size as the Pokémon does. Along with Squirtle and Charmander, Bulbasaur is one of the three Pokémon available at the beginning of Pokémon Red and Blue. It evolves into Ivysaur."

Brawl trophy information
"A Seed Pokémon. From birth, Bulbasaur carries a large plant seed on its back. It uses the nutrients from the seed to grow bigger and bigger. Extended exposure to the sun will cause its body and seed to grow in size. Some say that once, when the seed was much lighter, Bulbasaur was able to get around on two legs. Bulbasaur evolves into Ivysaur."

POKÉMON Detective Pikachu
Multiple Bulbasaur appeared in POKÉMON Detective Pikachu. After Detective Pikachu was injured in the garden of giant Torterra, they and a group of Morelull escorted Tim, Lucy, and Pikachu to Mewtwo, who healed it.

Celestial
Multiple Bulbasaur appeared in the music video for Celestial.

Trivia
In the Japanese Pokémon Red, Green, and Blue, the international Pokémon Red and Blue, and the Japanese Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, Professor Oak classifies Bulbasaur as the "plant Pokémon" (Japanese: しょくぶつポケモン) when the player is about to choose it as their first partner Pokémon, using the term while referring to its type. In the English versions of Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, he calls it the "grass Pokémon".
This also occurs in the first episode of Pokémon Origins.
Bulbasaur's evolutionary line is the only Poison-type Pokémon to be part of a first partner Pokémon family.
Bulbasaur's evolutionary line is also the only that has each member appear at least once in the Super Smash Bros. series to be part of a first partner line.
Bulbasaur shares its category with its evolved forms and Sunkern. They are all known as the Seed Pokémon.
Bulbasaur's number in the National Pokédex and the Fiore Browser are the same: 001.
Due to the censor that prevents Pokémon with offensive nicknames being traded on the GTS, a Bulbasaur with an English name couldn't be traded on the GTS without a nickname in Pokémon Black and White.
In Pokémon Gold and Silver, Bulbasaur is programmed to be able to learn Charm through breeding, but no other Pokémon in the Grass or Monster Groups can legitimately learn it to pass down as an Egg Move in those games. In Generation III and IV, Bulbasaur can inherit the move from Shroomish by chain breeding. In Generation V onwards, Bulbasaur can inherit the move directly from Cottonee.
In Pokémon Sun and Moon, Bulbasaur could learn Vine Whip at level 7 instead of Leech Seed. This oversight was later fixed in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.
According to the Trainer Race quiz minigame from PokéROM, the word "strong" is a good adjective to describe Bulbasaur.
Cultural impact

$1 coins from Niue
Niue released a one-dollar coin featuring Bulbasaur as part of a commemorative promotion for the Pokémon franchise, with Bulbasaur on one side and the nation's coat of arms on the other.
While Bulbasaur is not considered to be part of the inspiration for the naming of Bulbasaurus, a genus of dicynodonts, it has been noted that the similarities "may not be entirely coincidental".[6]
Origin
Bulbasaur is based on a frog.[7][8] In particular, its short legs, stout appearance, and ear-like protrusions on its head make it resemble horned frogs. According to Ken Sugimori and Atsuko Nishida, the latter designed Bulbasaur working backward from Venusaur, meaning Bulbasaur was the last of its evolutionary line to have been designed and was also directly based on Venusaur.[8] The bulb on its back resembles a lily or onion.

Name origin
Bulbasaur is a combination of bulb[9][10][11] (a rounded underground storage organ present in some plants) and dinosaur[11] or -saurus[10] (common suffix used in the names of extinct reptilian creatures, derived from the Ancient Greek word for lizard). The name also sounds similar to the word bulbous.

Fushigidane may be a combination of 不思議 fushigi (strange; mysterious) and 種 tane (seed), as well as a pun of the phrase 不思議だね Fushigi da ne? ("Isn't it strange?").

In other languages
Language	Title	Meaning
 Japanese	フシギダネ Fushigidane	From 不思議 fushigi and 種 tane, as well as a pun of 不思議だね Fushigi, da ne?
 French	Bulbizarre	From bulbe and bizarre
 Spanish	Bulbasaur	Same as English name
 German	Bisasam	From bizarr, Saurier, and Samen
 Italian	Bulbasaur	Same as English name
 Korean	이상해씨 Isanghessi	From 이상하다 isanghada and 씨 ssi
 Mandarin Chinese	妙蛙種子 / 妙蛙种子 Miàowāzhǒngzǐ	From 妙 miào, 蛙 wā, and 種子 / 种子 zhǒngzǐ
 Cantonese Chinese	妙蛙種子 Miuhwājúngjí*
奇異種子 Kèihyihjúngjí*	From 妙 miuh, 蛙 wā, and 種子 júngjí
From 奇異 kèihyih and 種子 júngjí
[show]More languages
See also
Ash's Bulbasaur
May's Bulbasaur
Saur
Shauna's Bulbasaur
Pistachio's Bulbasaur
Venusaur (UNITE)
First partner Pokémon
Partner Pokémon (Mystery Dungeon)
References
 A Mudkip Mission
 The Mystery Menace
 Pikachu's Vacation
 Bulbasaur (SWSH Promo 303)
 Bulbasaur's Mysterious Garden
 Sloat, Sarah. (February 1, 2017). "Scientists Who Discovered Bulbasaurus Didn’t Name It After a Pokémon." Inverse.
 Interview with Jun'ichi Masuda and Ken Sugimori about Pokémon Black and White Versions (archived - Japanese text)
 Creator Profile: The Creators of Pikachu - Pokémon.com (archived)
 GAME FREAK | POCKEMON JOURNAL (archive)
 (February 27, 2016). "ポケモンが現実世界と仮想世界を繋いでいく、20年目の挑戦・・・株式会社ポケモン代表取締役社長・石原恒和氏インタビュー" inside-games.jp.
 (November 15, 2019). "「ポケットモンスター ソード・シールド」インタビュー。「最強」をテーマに，子供たちが楽しめるものを目指して." 4Gamer.net
External links
Article on Wikipedia


First partner trios
Kanto

Bulbasaur

Charmander

Squirtle
Johto

Chikorita

Cyndaquil

Totodile
Hoenn

Treecko

Torchic

Mudkip
Sinnoh

Turtwig

Chimchar

Piplup
Unova

Snivy

Tepig

Oshawott
Kalos

Chespin

Fennekin

Froakie
Alola

Rowlet

Litten

Popplio
Galar

Grookey

Scorbunny

Sobble
Paldea

Sprigatito

Fuecoco

Quaxly
Other trios: Hisui • Lumiose
See also: Pikachu (Yellow) • Pikachu/Eevee (LGPE) • Other first Pokémon
Pokémon
#0002: Ivysaur		→
	This Pokémon article is part of Project Pokédex, a Bulbapedia project that aims to write comprehensive articles on each Pokémon species, as well as Pokémon groups and forms.
Categories: PokémonGeneration I PokémonGrass-type PokémonPoison-type PokémonDual-type PokémonPokémon with a gender ratio of seven males to one femalePokémon in the Medium Slow experience groupGreen-colored PokémonBody style 08 PokémonMonster group PokémonGrass group PokémonPokémon that are part of a three-stage evolutionary linePokémon in the Kanto PokédexPokémon in the Johto PokédexPokémon in the Kalos PokédexPokémon in the Galar PokédexPokémon in the Blueberry PokédexPokémon with wild held itemsPokémon with a base stat total of 318Pokémon whose Special stat became both Special Attack and Special DefensePokémon with 17 max performance starsBody size 1 PokémonFirst partner PokémonAnimation characters' first PokémonSuper Smash Bros. trophies
Navigation menuPage actions
Article
Discussion
View source
History
Tools
In other languages
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.5/Powered by MediaWiki
This page was last edited on 2 July 2025, at 00:09.Content is available under Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 2.5. (see Copyrights for details) Privacy policyAbout BulbapediaDisclaimersMobile view
Update Privacy Preferences
A Raptive Partner Site



