Snorlax (Japanese: カビゴン Kabigon) is a Normal-type Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves from Munchlax when leveled up with high friendship.

Snorlax can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Snorlax if it has the Gigantamax Factor.

In Generations I and II games, their remakes, and Pokémon X and Y, wild Snorlax can be found sleeping in inconvenient locations. In order to catch one, a Trainer must first awaken it with music from either a Poké Flute or the Pokégear set to the Poké Flute channel.

Snorlax is the game mascot of Pokémon Sleep.

Biology
Snorlax is a huge, bipedal, dark blue-green mammalian Pokémon with a cream-colored face, belly, and feet. Its body is composed of mostly its belly, as its limbs are comparatively small. Its head is large with small, pointed ears, and two pointed teeth protruding from its lower jaw. It has round feet, which both have three claws and a circular brown paw pad, and short arms with five claws on each hand. Snorlax's bulk makes it the heaviest Normal type.


Snorlax swimming in the sea
Snorlax is often found in mountains and forests. It wakes up only to eat, requiring between 880-900 lbs. (399-400 kg) of food per day before returning to its slumber, although it can also eat while it is resting. It is not a picky eater, as its strong stomach allows it to eat even moldy food without feeling any ill effects. Once a Snorlax enters its slumber, it is almost impossible to wake it up. A Poké Flute is one of the few things that can awaken Snorlax from its slumber. It can even handle thorny plants or Muk's poison. Snorlax is docile enough to let children and small Pokémon bounce on its large stomach. Despite its apparent laziness, however, Snorlax can exhibit tremendous power when prompted. In the Pokémon the Series episode Snack Attack, Snorlax is shown to be capable of swimming in the water. Snorlax is known to appear without warning in villages and steal their food supplies, such as rice granaries, which has long been considered a disaster whenever it happens. Snorlax also tends to sleep on areas with bridges, often blocking others from crossing through. Professor Neroli does research on Snorlax, particularly on their ability to attract Pokémon around them to sleep. A lot of Pokémon tend to gather around Snorlax to sleep near it or on it.

Snorlax is the only known Pokémon capable of using the Z-Move Pulverizing Pancake.

Forms

Gigantamax Snorlax attacking
Snorlax has a Gigantamax form.

As Gigantamax Snorlax, seeds and small pebbles that were tangled in its belly fur go through immense growth, causing patches of grass, bushes, rocks, and a large tree to sprout upon its belly. The tree has three red clouds circling it. The Berries that grow on Gigantamax Snorlax's tree include a Sitrus Berry, a Magost Berry, and a Haban Berry.

Gigantamax Snorlax almost never moves; even when in battle it only slightly lifts its body and attacks by flailing with its arms and legs. However, its attacks are very powerful — Gigantamax Snorlax is considered to be one of the strongest Dynamax Pokémon to have been discovered.[1]

Gigantamax Snorlax is the only known Pokémon capable of using the G-Max Move G-Max Replenish.

Gigantamax Snorlax

